---
title: Host a Hugo site on Github with a custom domain from Namecheap
date: "2019-07-22"
author: Zhenghao Zhu
draft: false
toc: false
cover: 
tags:
  - hugo
  - github
  - github pages
  - custom domain
  - namecheap
---

> A personal website to showcase personal projects is one of the most important things a computer science student should have when they are searching for a job. This 
> tutorial will serve all those students that are not well-versed in web development and want an easy way to setup their personal website in a fast manner. 

## Before Starting 
---
With this tutorial I'm assuming you have an IDE such as <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/" target="_blank">VS Code</a> or <a href="https://www.sublimetext.com/" target="_blank">Sublime</a> and a version control system such as <a href="https://git-scm.com/" target="_blank">Git</a>. 

## Setting Up 
---
First we should install Hugo with the help of the terminal. The code snippets for installing on Windows, Mac, or Linux respectively are below.

### Windows with Chocolatey
```
choco install hugo -confirm
```

#### Install Chocolatey on Windows with Powershell
```
Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://chocolatey.org/install.ps1'))
```
### Mac with Homebrew
```
brew install hugo
```

### Linux with Linuxbrew
```
brew install hugo
```

### Further Instructions
The next steps can be found in the [Hugo docs](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) which will help you set up the environment in your OS of choice.

## Your first Hugo site with a theme
---
Let's set up your site first using the terminal. For the purpose of this tutorial, we will be using Powershell on Windows 10. First, navigate to the Desktop directory and then follow the command below.

```
C:\Users\username\Desktop> hugo new site site-name
```

This should create a folder called site-name in your desktop with some boilerplate code.

### Initializing repository and choosing a theme 
To choose a theme, go to the <a href="https://themes.gohugo.io/" target="_blank">Hugo themes webpage</a>. If you only want to use the theme without any changes then run the following git commands to set up a git repository with a clone of the theme. For the purpose of this tutorial, we will be using the Pulp theme.

```
git init
git clone https://github.com/koirand/pulp.git themes/pulp
```

If you want to make changes to the theme, the best solution is to download the theme from Github and manually adding it to the themes folder.

After initializing the repository and adding the theme, we need to configure the config.toml file in the site's folder. We will do this by copy-pasting the config.toml file available in the theme's folder. 

### Deploying to Github Pages 
Now create an online <b>new</b> repository called \[username\].github.io and another repository called Personal-Website

```
git remote add origin git@github.com:[github_username]/Personal-Website.git
git add -A
git commit -m "Initial commit for Hugo site"
git submodule add git@github.com:[github_username]/[github_username].github.io.git
git add -A
git commit -m "Initial commit for HTML code generated by Hugo"
git push -u origin master
```

After this, we need to change the config.toml file by changing the baseURL and publishDir variables to the Github page URL. This will look like this:

```
baseUrl = "https://[github_username].github.io/"
...
publishDir = "[github_username].github.io/"
```

Now, just generate the HTML files using the following command:

```
hugo 
```

The last step is pushing the generated HTML files to Github by doing the following:

```
git add -A
git commit -m "HTML files generated and first iteration of personal website"
git push origin master
```

Now do the same thing in your main repository hosting the Hugo code

```
git add -A
git commit -m "First version of Hugo personal website"
git push origin master
```

## Custom domain using Namecheap

:gear: W.I.P :gear:
